European countries are reporting record numbers of Covid-19 cases as the continent prepares for the pandemic to intensify through winter.Those affected include Europe's political class. Polish President Andrzej Duda tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, according to a tweet from Presidential Minister Blazej Spychalski Saturday. Duda said that he was feeling well, was asymptomatic and would continue working in isolation. "As you can see, I am full of strength. I hope it will stay this way. However, the fact is that I must isolate. Together with my wife, we abide by the rules of isolation in an iron manner," he said in a video posted on Twitter on Saturday. "I would like to apologize to all of those, who have to go through quarantine procedures in connection to meeting with me in recent days ... I hope none of you get sick." The Polish President used the video to appeal to people to be especially careful of senior citizens, as they were particularly at risk from Covid-19. Duda's diagnosis comes as the country reported 13,632 new cases Friday, the highest daily tally since the pandemic began. The case tally was more than 50% higher than Monday's 7,482 cases. "The second wave has hit the entire Europe equally," Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said Friday. The five countries with the highest rate of infection worldwide are all in Europe, according to Johns Hopkins University's latest moving averages, as analyzed by CNN.The worst-hit nations are the Czech Republic, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and France.In all five countries, the number of new infections has surged since the beginning of October. French President Emmanuel Macron warned Friday that his country needs to live with the virus in the longterm. "When I listen to the scientists, and the Scientific Council, we foresee [living with the virus] at best until next summer," Macron said, speaking during a visit to a health center. Macron added that his government aims to impose new coronavirus restrictions in a targeted way. On the same day France reported 42,032 new cases in 24 hours, a new record, according to the French Health Agency. Around 46 million people in the country are subject to a night-time coronavirus curfew in France. The picture in neighboring Spain is less dramatic but the country's daily average remains high, remaining at 299 per million on October 19. Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez pleaded with the public to limit their mobility and help fight a second wave, during a speech on Friday. "The next few weeks, months will be tough, very tough," Sanchez said, adding that while Spain has officially recorded more than 1 million cases, he estimates the real number is more than 3 million. The Spanish regions of Castilla and Leon and Valencia have announced they are planning to impose a night curfew over the coming days. The region of Andalusia has also requested a curfew for the city of Granada.
